===============================================================================                                                                   
                                       *         *                 
                                     **        **                  
                                     **        **                  
                                     **        **                  
                                     **        **                  
            *** **** ****     ***    **  ***   ** ****     ****    
             *** **** ***  * * ***   ** * ***  *** ***  * * ***  * 
              **  **** **** *   ***  ***   *** **   **** *   ****  
              **   **   ** **    *** **     ** **    ** **    **   
              **   **   ** ********  **     ** **    ** **    **   
              **   **   ** *******   **     ** **    ** **    **   
              **   **   ** **        **     ** **    ** **    **   
              **   **   ** ****    * **     ** **    ** **    **   
              ***  ***  *** *******  **     **  *****    ***** **  
               ***  ***  *** *****    **    **   ***      ***   ** 
                                            *                      
                                           *                       
                                          *                        
                                         *                         
===============================================================================
                         mehba's newbie guide v20151123
===============================================================================

Introduction
=======================================

    Lots of newbies joining lately with no clue about the basics of security or 
    how to keep themselves anonymous online. This document is not exhaustive, 
    but is intended as a primer. 

    I'm going to make some assumptions in this document. 
        1) You're not stupid
        2) You know how to use Google (or duckduckgo or disconnect.me)
        3) Rather than ask dumb questions, you know to search first.
        4) You have a basic understanding of how your OS works
    
    If you do not know #3 then #1 is probably not going to apply to you. 

    You probably already know a lot of what I am going to share in this 
    document. I am targetting this at beginners. Everyone has to start 
    somewhere, and I'm tired of answering the same questions over, or watching 
    people lose their shit at the new guy in the channel that wants to help, but
    doesn't know where to start.

    So this covers the basics. This is not an operational manual. This will not
    teach you to be a "hacker" (don't ever self-apply that word) nor will it 
    teach you how to crack Gmail accounts or break into your ex girlfriend's 
    Snapchat account.

    This IS philosophy ala mehba. And this *IS* a long read. Very long.

    Want to know why I'm so grumpy on IRC? Then this doc is definitely for you. 
    Chances are, by the end of reading this, IF you do actually read it, you'll
    have a better understanding of how to get on (and stay on) my good side.



Contents
=======================================

    *) Introduction
    *) Contents
    *) The Mentality
    *) The Knowledge
    *) The Tools
    *) The Legalities
    *) Final Thoughts



The Mentality
=======================================

Whether you are participating in an Anonymous Op, or just doing your own thing,
there are a few things you need to get through your head.

Firstly, you are not a hacker. Do not ever refer to yourself as a hacker. Do 
not even think about it. If others call you a hacker, ignore them. Think about 
it as if it were Fight Club. Same deal here. 

    The first rule: you do not talk about what you do online.
    The second rule: you do not talk about anything you do online.
    Third rule : You do not talk about yourself at all. Even after the Op ends.
    Fourth Rule : Don't trust *ANYBODY* online.

Attention is bad. You do not want attention. Everything you do needs to be done
quietly and without fanfare. Do not brag or boast about your achievements. Shut 
your pie hole and listen, but never talk about what you do and who you do it 
with. Never talk about a target, regardless of whether you were successful or
failed miserably. It is the fastest way to get caught or worse.

You don't know who I am. I might be some kid in Japan or some Nigerian Prince. I
might live in a R.V, wear tin foil hats, and travel across the deserts of the US
to avoid being caught. I might be camping out in the mountains of Austria or 
relaxing on the beaches of Australia. But one thing is for sure. I will not ever
tell you the honest truth about who I am or what I do. 

I am just some nobody you never heard of, that hangs out on the Internet and 
does... nothing. And that is all you are too. You have no reputation. You have 
no achievements. You're just another nobody on the internet. And if you're smart
you will keep it that way.



The Knowledge
=======================================

My goal, my very mission, is to learn. Everything I do must be about expanding 
knowledge. But that knowledge cannot be given to you. You have to earn it and 
learn it for yourself. The Internet is so full of freely available lessons and 
tutorials on every subject you could ever want. Books can be found on almost 
*EVERY* subject you can imagine. 

When you see something you do not understand or know, your first reaction must
always be to use Google to look up information. Use what you find there to then
expand the places you look. Whether to books or deeper into the web. Only turn
to people when you have learned enough to be able to make a considered query. It
gets very frustrating when people constantly keep having to repeat how the basic
fundamentals of a subject.

This is true of everything. Whether it is pentesting or writing code in a new 
language. There are so many tutorials on Python out there, you should never need
to ask how to write your first "Hello World" code in Python. Or your first 
crawler/bot for that matter. This is true of programming subjects, of I.T admin
subjects, or basic networking skills. In fact, it is true of everything you can
think of.

Don't ask how to use Linux, learn how to use Linux and then ask how to achieve a
very specific task. Learn how to administer servers. Learn how different 
platforms behave. Understand the difference between Apache HTTPd, Nginx, and 
SquidCache. Or between JBoss, Glassfish, and Tomcat. Understand the difference
between SOCKS4 and SOCKS5 protocols. Or between SSL and TLS. Know why MD5 is bad
but SHA256 is (currently) good. Understand why DES failed but 3DES worked. What 
is AES and why is it important to know?

You're on the Internet. So understand networks, especially IPv4 and IPv6. Learn
the difference between a Netgear DSL modem and a Motorola cable modem. Learn 
what JunOS is, and what the real IOS is. Understand the difference between a
old Checkpoint FW-1 firewall and an IPF firewall.

The point being, knowledge is what you need. If you ever want to be taken
seriously in certain communities, then you need to show a basic understanding of
what those communities actually do and the environments those communities are 
in contact with.

Being new is only OK for so long. At some point you have to either learn for 
yourself, or accept that maybe this isn't for you and find something else that
catches your imagination or stimulates your interest.



The Basics
=======================================

Everyone has their own toolkit they have put together over time. I'm not going
to go into specifics about the tools you must have or definitely need, but will
cover off just the very basics.

1) Know your Operating System 

    Whether it's BSD, Windows, Linux or MacOS X, know how to use it. By this I 
    mean be familiar with the shell. Know how to use the command line. 
    
    If it is Windows, know what the Registry is, how to navigate it, how to 
    modify it and how not to damage it. Know how to use Local and Group Policies 
    to manage the configuration of your computer. Be able to use and manage the
    basics from the command prompt, and start learning how to manage the 
    advanced features using PowerShell.
    
    If it's any of the Unix based platforms, including BSD, Linux, and Mac OS X,
    know the shell. Know how to navigate your system from the shell. Know how to
    add users or remove users at the shell. Know how to change the settings of 
    your platform. Understand what /etc is for, or the structure of /usr. Know
    the difference between /home and /Users. Know what goes in /lib/var and what
    goes in /var.
    
    Understand the difference between a Service and a Daemon. Understand the 
    difference between init and systemd. 
    
    And for all of these, know how to write scripts to automate things. 
    
2) Learn how to use and manage VMs

    The choice of host operating system is not really as important as many want
    you to believe. Most of what you're going to be doing is more often than not
    going to be done inside a Virtual Machine. There are many VM platforms to
    chose from, and the features you want should dictate what you end up using.
    
    VirtualBox is by far the most common and most popular. It is cross plaform
    and freely available for non-commercial use. A very large portion of it is
    also available as Open Source software, with only some features, such as the
    USB drivers and a few other bits and bobs, requiring a non-open source 
    license to use.
    
    VMWare is often next on the list. The Server version is available for free
    to most people, while the more feature rich Workstation version is still
    sold with a commercial license and fee. There is also a VMware Player that
    is freely available, but cannot be used to create new VMs, only use existing
    ones.
    
    Parallels is very popular on the Mac platform, as is VMWare's Fusion. Both 
    are primarily intended to give you access to Microsoft Windows based apps
    on the Mac OS X platform, but can also be used to run other platforms.
    
    On Linux you have a few extended choices. But you also have Containers as
    well as Virtual Machines. Containers are similar to Jails on the Solaris
    platform, but cross bred with VMs. I tend to think of them as virtualized 
    applications rather than virtualised machines. That's an over-simplification
    of what they are, but for this document it works.
    
    Containers are becoming very common and a preferred way of sharing tools and
    utilities. They include all the requirements to run that application built
    in so, for the most part, they will work regardless of what Linux-based OS
    is underneath. As long as the hardware architecture matches, you should be
    good to go.
    
    But you also have a lot of VM opportunities as well. VirtualBox and VMWare
    are definitely available to you, but so are tools like Qemu, KVM, and Xen.
    
    Find the combination that works for you. As I said before, the host is 
    generally not as important as what VM platform you decide to use. Containers
    can run inside Linux VMs, so you could have Docker containers running on 
    Ubuntu in a Windows Hyper-V VM on an Amazon AWS instance if you really 
    wanted to go stupid.
    
3) Learn how to parse networks

    Do you know every computer that is on your home network? What about all the
    services available to you on those computers? Do you know how to find out 
    what version of what application is listening on Port 80 on a computer on
    your network?
    
    Before you even think about how to do stuff on the internet, you need to be
    able to apply similar techniques to your home network first. Sometimes it
    could be dangerous (or even illegal) to perform certain actions against a
    computer or network that you do not own. But you need to learn how to 
    perform some actions. So perform them on your own network first.
    
    Get a MITM tool such as Ettercap and learn how to monitor the traffic on
    your network. Learn how to inject packets or change the content of packets 
    on your network. Get a network sniffer like Wireshark so you can see the 
    types of traffic on your network.
    
    Get a network scanner like Nmap so you can enumerate all the hosts on your
    network and all the services running on those hosts. Learn how to find out
    what operating system each host is running, and what software is providing
    the services on those hosts.
    
4) Learn what an exploit actually does

    Applications are the most vulnerable spots of a network connected to the
    internet. Don't just get a copy of Metasploit and start following tutorials,
    actually understand what is happening when you use Metasploit tools. Find
    out why an application crashes when you perform a specific task. Or find out
    why a buffer overflow is so dangerous. Understand how the Stack works and 
    why technologies like ASLR were developed to try and reduce the ability of
    a vulnerability to execute arbitrary code.
    
    Get an understanding of what Cross Site Scripting actually means and why it
    is one of the biggest causes of vulnerabilities in modern websites. Learn
    about directory traversal. Understand why SQL injection works and how it can
    lead to more than just data dumps.
    
    One of the biggest problems that has always faced a community is what has
    been known as the "script kiddie." These are people (often teens) that get
    hold of a piece of exploit code and use it, but have no actual understanding
    of why or how it works. If you don't want to be ridiculed, you don't want to
    be one of these people. Learn. Understand. 
    
    Why is this important? Because you can't always rely on someone else to find
    a way to do something you need to do. You need to be able to do it for
    yourself.
    
5) Have a purpose

    Having a computer full of tools and exploits is useless unless you have a
    reason. Let me be brutally honest here. "For the lulz" is the short path to
    getting yourself locked up. Especially in the USA. 
    
    Put it another way. You're not stupid. Obviously you have an interest in 
    this sort of thing or you wouldn't have read this absolutely massive 
    document written by someone you have no clue about. So instead of being a
    target, take advantage of that knowledge and put it to good purpose. Have a
    moral and ethical code. 
    
    Whether you're a blackhat, greyhat, or whitehat, doesn't matter. What I
    think matters more is that you're doing something because you have an
    opinion on a subject. Whether that opinion is "I can make money," or "ISIS
    needs to be removed from the internet," does not ultimately matter.
    
    If it's money, then be consistent with that purpose.
    If it's activism, then be consistent with that purpose. 
    If it is purely to learn more, then be consistent with that purpose.
    
    Understand that over time you will get noticed and you will build a
    reputation amongst certain circles. That's usually about the time I change
    my nick and "disappear," but for others that reputation can become 
    important.


    
The Legalities
=======================================

    Getting caught is bad. No matter where you live or what the legal code in
    your home country is. The objective is to do things completely under the
    radar so that even if people discover something you have done, they never
    discover whom it was that did it.

    Having said that, you need to be very aware of the legislation in the place
    you live, and also at the location of any computer or network you target.
    
    Everything you do will have consequences. For example, in the US there is a
    piece of legislation known as the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act. This is the
    same piece of law that was used to terrorise Aaron Swartz until he commited
    suicide in an effort to be free of the harrassment from the Federal
    Government. This legislation is outdated and contains language that is no
    longer relevant to computer use in an Internet enabled world. But is still
    used to convict people.
    
    There are similar problems in the UK, Europe, Canada, and Australia. 
    Outdated laws that are used to convict people of things that would not 
    otherwise be considered a crime  if the law had been written within the last
    5 or 10 years.    
    
    The point is, you need to be aware of the risks before you do something. You
    need to understand that if you are caught, there are potentially some life
    altering repurcussions for such actions. Even something as banal as a DDOS
    can put you in a cell for several years.

    Which really boils down to, are you willing to go to prison for doing the
    thing you want to do?
    
    

Final Thoughts
=======================================

    Well, not really final thoughts. Just the spot I intend to stop for now.
    
    Learning this stuff can open doors to a new world of possibilities on the
    internet. It can leave you in a very dangerous position, or help you become
    very rich. 
    
    I personally advocate a very light touch. But sometimes that can't be helped
    or the goal is to create a lot of noise. Just be sure you know how to hide
    in the noise.
    
    You can make some serious money if you do things right. There are some very 
    good career paths for those that actually put in the effort to learn this 
    stuff properly. Get a CCIE, CISSP, or even a OSCP certification. People with
    these certs are always in high demand. You will always be wanted for the 
    skills these certifications ensure. And knowing a little extra can never be
    a bad thing either.
    
    And if you see me somewhere in your travels, feel free to say hi. I bark,
    but I don't bite... Much.
    
    
    mehba @ anonops